So welcome to this little bonus lecture about how you can go about saving more than one piece of data
for any given component.
The moment I've shown you how you can return just one thing that I want to show you there's a couple
of ways that we could do this differently.
The first way is going to be to use dictionaries.
The second is going to be to use struct.
Let's start with the dictionary approach first.
Basically it hinges off the fact that here we just need to return any old objects.
And it's got to be serialized for the moment we're turning it back to three.
But it could be a more complex compound object such as a dictionary.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to save a dictionary that stores both the transforms position
and the transforms rotation.
And for simplicity we're going to store the rotation as the EULA angles the vector representation of
the rotation rather than the Cotonou.
So let's have a go at doing that.
So first things first we need to create the dictionary that captures the state.
So we're going to create a dictionary.
It's going to take string as the key so I can give the different items in the dictionary a name such
as position and rotation and then we're going to just have any old object as the object in our dictionary.
So that could allow us to store multiple serialized vectors or we could store other things too such
as floats and billions and so on.
So I'm going to call this data and I'm going to create a new dictionary of exactly that type so it's
a little bit redundant there but that's how we have to create dictionaries then we want to set a dictionary
key we want to set it from the string.
So we're going to do data and then using these brackets notation we're going to set the position and
we're going to set the position to what we were currently returning from capture state.
It is going to be that vector 3 and we can do that because we can store any object inside this dictionary
and then we're gonna do the same thing with the rotation and then we are going to be storing again a
new serialized bool vector three new serialized bool vector three and we are going to be storing the
transform dot EULA angles.
So that's just the vector representation of the rotation and then what we want to return is the dictionary
object the data dictionary object.
So now we're gonna make a little bit of a change in our restore status at the moment we are casting
the serialized vector 3 because we thought that what we had returning back was that serialized ball
back to three it no longer is.
It's now a dictionary of this type.
So we have to cast to that type and we have to store that type and what we're storing is not the position
but the data object that we created and capture state.
And that means that when we are setting up our transformed opposition we have to get that out of the
data object.
So instead we're gonna do data square brackets position and then we're going to have to cast that to
the serialized vector 3 because all we know about it is that it is of object type.
That's all the compiler knows about it.
So we have to explicitly say no no.
We know that this is a serialized ball vector 3.
So we put our casts and we put the right amount of brackets around things and then we can convert it
to a vector.
And then finally assigned to the transform position.
So what this is doing to recap is it's going in to our data dictionary object looking for the key named
position that returns something of object type.
We know that it is a series of vector three type so we have to cast it to that.
And then on the result of the cast we can call to vector which converts our serialized vector three
back into a unity vector 3 and then we can do the same thing with rotation as well so we're going to
transform you like angles equals and then pretty much the same thing so I'm going to just go ahead and
copy it but instead of position we're going to use the rotation key so we can go ahead and give that
a go.
First thing you're gonna want to do is delete your save file because this is an incompatible change
with any of your previous save files and we can go ahead and hit play move the guy around rotate him
save his current location and then restart the game and he's going to pop up into existence in that
place and in that rotation.
So that seems to have worked.
Now I did say that there's another way of doing this so I'm just going to click my fingers and reset
the state of this and we're going to have a go at doing this same thing using a struct instead.
So we're gonna create a struct within this class we're just gonna call it the mover save data and then
the members of this struct are going to be the serialized vector 3 type position and they Syrians will
vet three type again of rotation and these are what we're going to create when we do our capture state.
So we are going to do a we're going to create a mover save data type called data that's going to be
a new move a safe data and then we want to set this up so that data DOT's position is equal to our transformed
position like so and we'll have to make our position in rotation public to be easily accessible as well.
Like so so that we can easily set it and remember to create a new serialized bool vector three here
around our transformed position.
So that's what we're gonna do.
That's that's our position now.
Same thing for the rotation that's gonna be creating it from the EULA angles instead.
And what we want to return our capture state is this data object like.
So now you have to be careful because this struct is not yet automatically serialized bool to do that.
We have to put the annotation with the square brackets just above the struct called system dot see realizable
like.
So that will just make sure that all the public fields in the struct are able to be serialized down
by the C sharp serialization system.
So now we've done this.
Basically what we're doing with the dictionary is that we've done it with a struct and it is nicely
typed for us.
So when we want to cast back using restore state we can do our move saved save data cast instead because
that's the type it should be.
And we're going to put it in a variable called data of the type move a save data.
And now we don't have to do any nasty casting which has the advantage of doing the struct approach.
So instead of doing position dot to vector we're going to do data dot position dot to vector and there's
no casting going on that just that final conversion in to the unity vector type.
And then we can do the same thing with the EULA angles we're just doing the rotation instead.
And we should be able to go over into unity and try that again.
This is an incompatible change with the dictionary change.
So you've got to delete your save file and then we can go ahead and hit play should bring us into the
default location.
And if I move location and go ahead and hit save in this place and restart then what we should see is
that we load up in that new location facing in the correct direction.
So now hopefully you feel confident with being able to add more and more data into an individual components
save you can keep adding more fields to some struct like this or to addiction dictionary whichever approach
you feel most comfortable with using.
Now I'm going to click my fingers again and put everything back because we don't need the rotation for
simplicity at this stage.
So there is everything back as it was for the end of this bonus lecture.